Yun Dong-ju (Korean: 윤동주; Hanja: 尹東柱, Korean pronunciation: [jundoŋ dʑu]; December 30, 1917 – February 16, 1945) was a Korean poet known for his lyric and resistance poetry against Japanese colonialism during Japan's occupation of Korea. He was born in Longjing, Jilin, China, and was the eldest son among the four children of his father Yun Yeong-Seok and his mother Kim Yong. As a child, he was called "Haehwan" (해환, 海煥 [hɛːhwan]). He entered Eunjin Middle School in Longjing in 1932 and moved to Pyeongyang to attend Soongsil Middle School in 1936. After the school was closed down in the same year, he moved back to Longjing. On December 27, 1941, aged 23, he graduated from Yonhi College, in Seoul which later became Yonsei University. 

During his second year at Yonhi College, he published a poem in a boy magazine and officially appeared in the paragraph. After crossing over to Japan, he entered Kyoto Doshisha University in 1942 but was arrested by the Japanese police for alleged anti-Japanese movements in 1943. While imprisoned in Fukuoka, he died at the age of 27, leaving over 100 poems. His cause of death in Fukuoka prison is uncertain, but theories have been raised based on accounts of saltwater injections and medical experiments performed at that prison. His book, The Sky, the Wind, the Stars, and the Poem (하늘과 바람과 별과 시), was published posthumously. 

Yun's poetry is notable for the childlike persona of his narrators, sensitive awareness of a lost hometown, and an unusual scapegoat mentality deriving from a sense of shame at not being able to lead a conscientious life in a period of gloomy social realities. In particular, they evince a steely spirit that attempts to overcome anxiety, loneliness, and despair and to surmount contemporary realities through hope and courage. In January 1948, 31 of his poems were published by Jeongeumsa (정음사, 正⾳社), together with an introduction by the fellow poet Chong Ji-yong; this work was also titled Sky, Wind, Star, and Poem (하늘과 바람과 별과 시). 

Yun's relatives collected his other poems and added them to a third edition of the book in 1976. The poems that are in this edition (116 in total) are considered to be most of Yun's works. In a 1986 survey, he was selected as 'the most popular poet amongst the youth' and his popularity continues to this day. The following are two English translations of the foreword to his collection, dated November 20, 1941: "Wishing not to have so much as a speck of shame toward heaven until the day I die, I suffered, even when the wind stirred the leaves, with a heart that sang to the stars, loving everything that dies, and I must walk the path given to me. Tonight, too, the stars brush the wind."
Yun Dong-ju was a Korean poet who had a significant impact on Korean literature. He was born in Longjing in 1917 and attended Eunjin Middle School in 1932 before moving to Pyeongyang to attend Soongsil Middle School in 1936. After the school was closed down in the same year, he moved back to Longjing. In 1941, he graduated from Yonhi College in Seoul, which later became Yonsei University. During his second year at Yonhi College, he published a poem in a boy magazine and officially appeared in the paragraph. 

After crossing over to Japan, he entered Kyoto Doshisha University in 1942 but was arrested by the Japanese police for alleged anti-Japanese movements in 1943. While imprisoned in Fukuoka, he died at the age of 27, leaving over 100 poems. His cause of death in Fukuoka prison is uncertain, but theories have been raised based on accounts of saltwater injections and medical experiments performed at that prison. 

His book, The Sky, the Wind, the Stars, and the Poem (하늘과 바람과 별과 시), was published posthumously. Yun's poetry is notable for the childlike persona of his narrators, sensitive awareness of a lost hometown, and an unusual scapegoat mentality deriving from a sense of shame at not being able to lead a conscientious life in a period of gloomy social realities. In particular, they evince a steely spirit that attempts to overcome anxiety, loneliness, and despair and to surmount contemporary realities through hope and courage. 

In January 1948, 31 of his poems were published by Jeongeumsa (정음사, 正⾳社), together with an introduction by the fellow poet Chong Ji-yong; this work was also titled Sky, Wind, Star, and Poem (하늘과 바람과 별과 시). His relatives collected his other poems and added them to a third edition of the book in 1976. The poems that are in this edition (116 in total) are considered to be most of Yun's works. In a 1986 survey, he was selected as 'the most popular poet amongst the youth' and his popularity continues to this day. 

Two English translations of the foreword to his collection, dated November 20, 1941, are as follows: "Wishing not to have so much as a speck of shame toward heaven until the day I die, I suffered, even when the wind stirred the leaves, with a heart that sang to the stars, loving everything that dies, and I must walk the path given to me. Tonight, too, the stars brush the wind." 

Yun Dong-ju's representative poems were translated into English by Korean-American Byun Man-sik in 2020. In Lee Jung-myung's novel The Investigation, Yun is portrayed as "an imaginative paean to." In 2007, Yun Dongju was recited by "Sam" on South Korean television series "I Am Sam (TV series)", in episode 13. In 2011, Yun Dong-Ju Shoots the Moon, a musical based on his life, was performed by the Seoul Performing Arts Company. The movie DongJu: The Portrait of a Poet was released in February 2016, with Yun portrayed by actor Kang Ha-Neul. Several theaters screened the movie with English subtitles. On December 31 episode of Infinite Challenge featured the climax of the history and hip-hop, Kwanghee and Gaeko featuring Oh Hyuk from Hyukoh performed a song titled "Your Night" inspired by Yun Dong-ju's life and poetry.
Yoon Dong-ju, a Korean poet, has gained global recognition for his works that reflect his sensitivity towards his hometown and his attempt to overcome anxiety, loneliness, and despair. His book, The Sky, the Wind, the Stars, and the Poem, was published posthumously, and his poetry is notable for the childlike persona of his narrators. In 1948, 31 of his poems were published by Jeongeumsa, and his relatives collected his other poems and added them to a third edition of the book in 1976. Yun Dong-ju's representative poems were translated into English by Korean-American Byun Man-sik in 2020. In Lee Jung-myung's novel The Investigation, Yun is portrayed as "an imaginative paean to." The movie DongJu: The Portrait of a Poet was released in February 2016, with Yun portrayed by actor Kang Ha-Neul. Several theaters screened the movie with English subtitles. On December 31 episode of Infinite Challenge featured the climax of the history and hip-hop, Kwanghee and Gaeko featuring Oh Hyuk from Hyukoh performed a song titled "Your Night" inspired by Yun Dong-ju's life and poetry. Today, on his birth anniversary, Yun Dong-ju is remembered and celebrated.